en Español

000
ABPZ20 KNHC 271752
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Thu Aug 27 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Storm Lala, located several hundred miles north of Kure Atoll. 

Central East Pacific (EP93):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with a low pressure system 
located about 900 miles south of the southern tip of the Baja 
California peninsula are showing better signs of organization. 
Recent satellite-derived wind data indicate that this system is 
already producing winds of tropical-storm-force. If current trends 
continue, advisories will be initiated on a tropical storm this 
afternoon. This system is forecast to move generally northwestward 
at 10 to 15 mph for the next several days, staying well offshore of 
the coast of Mexico. For additional information on this system, 
including Gale Warnings, please see the High Seas Forecast issued 
by the National Weather Service. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...near 100 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...near 100 percent.

Western East Pacific (EP94):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with a low pressure area 
located well east-southeast of the Hawaiian Islands have continued 
to become better organized. Environmental conditions appear 
conducive for continued development, and a tropical depression is 
likely to form within the next day or so while the system drifts to 
the northeast, before turning westward this weekend.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...80 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Well Offshore of Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is forecast to form this weekend well to the 
south of southwestern Mexico. Environmental conditions appear 
favorable for gradual development of this system, and a tropical 
depression is likely to form early next week while it moves 
west-northwestward to northwestward at 10 to 15 mph. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

Central Pacific:
An area of low pressure could form well south or southwest of the 
Hawaiian Islands over the weekend or early next week. Some gradual 
development is possible thereafter while the system moves slowly 
west-northwestward, well offshore of the Hawaiian Islands.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

&&
High Seas Forecasts issued by the National Weather Service
can be found under AWIPS header NFDHSFEPI, WMO header FZPN02 
KWBC, and on the web at ocean.weather.gov/shtml/NFDHSFEPI.php 

$$
Forecaster Zelinsky/Evans/Pierce
  