ABPZ20 KNHC 192339
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 PM PDT Sat Sep 19 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

South-Southwest of Southwestern Mexico (EP99):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with a broad area of low 
pressure located several hundred miles south-southwest of the 
southwestern coast of Mexico remain disorganized. Environmental 
conditions are conducive for development, and a tropical depression 
is expected to form in the next day or so as the system moves 
generally northward off the coast of southwestern Mexico. Interests 
along the southwestern and west-central coast of Mexico should 
monitor the progress of this system. For more information, including 
gale warnings, please see the High Seas Forecast issued by the 
National Weather Service. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...90 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Western East Pacific (EP98):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with an area of low pressure 
located well southwest of the Baja California Peninsula are becoming 
better organized. Environmental conditions are conducive for 
development, and a tropical depression is expected to form over the 
next day or so as it moves westward to west-northwestward at 10 to 
15 mph across the western East Pacific.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...90 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Well East-Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands (Former TD 15-E):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with the remnants of Tropical 
Depression Fifteen-E, located well east of the Hawaiian Islands, 
remain limited. Environmental conditions appear conducive for some 
development of this system next week as it moves westward to 
west-southwestward, and a tropical depression could form well to the 
south or southeast of the Hawaiian Islands by the middle to latter 
part of next week.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...60 percent.

&&
High Seas Forecasts issued by the National Weather Service
can be found under AWIPS header NFDHSFEPI, WMO header FZPN02 
KWBC, and on the web at ocean.weather.gov/shtml/NFDHSFEPI.php

$$
Forecaster Gibbs


