en Español

000
ABPZ20 KNHC 221716
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Sat Aug 22 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Hurricane 
Lala, located north of the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National 
Monument, and on Tropical Storm Moke, located about 450 miles 
southeast of Hilo, Hawaii.

Southwest of Mexico (EP92):
Showers and thunderstorms are quickly becoming better organized in 
association with a broad area of low pressure located several 
hundred miles south of the southern tip of the Baja California 
Peninsula.  However, recent satellite-derived wind data indicates 
that the system does not yet have a well-defined circulation. 
Environmental conditions are quite favorable for development, and a 
tropical depression or tropical storm is expected to form on Sunday 
as the system moves west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...90 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Central East Pacific (EP91):
Disorganized showers and thunderstorms are persisting with a broad 
area of low pressure located well to the south-southwest of the 
southern tip of the Baja California Peninsula.  Environmental 
conditions appear favorable for gradual development, and a tropical 
depression could form before it interacts with, or merges with the 
disturbance to its east (EP92) late this weekend or early next week.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...50 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Well Southwest of Southwestern Mexico:
Another area of low pressure is expected to develop well south of 
the southern tip of the Baja California Peninsula during the middle 
portion of next week.  Some slow development is expected thereafter, 
and a tropical depression could form by the end of next week while 
the system moves generally west-northwestward.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...40 percent.

$$
Forecaster Hagen
  