en Español

612 
ABPZ20 KNHC 201741
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Sun Sep 20 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Storm Odalys, located located over a thousand miles southwest of the 
southern tip of Baja California. 

Southwest of Southwestern Mexico (EP99):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with a broad area of low 
pressure located about 350 miles south of Manzanillo, Mexico have 
changed little in organization since earlier today.  However, 
environmental conditions remain conducive for development, and an 
increase in the organization of the system could result in it 
becoming a tropical depression or storm within the next day or so.  
The system is expected to move eastward off the coast of southern 
Mexico on Monday, but could begin moving toward the coast by late
Tuesday.  Interests along the southwestern and west-central coast of 
Mexico should monitor the progress of this system. For more 
information, including gale warnings, see the High Seas Forecast 
issued by the National Weather Service.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...90 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Well East-Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands (Former TD 15-E):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with the remnants of Tropical 
Depression Fifteen-E, located well east-southeast of the Hawaiian 
Islands, remain limited. Environmental conditions appear conducive 
for some development of this system by the middle to latter portion 
of this week as the system moves westward to west-southwestward, and 
a tropical depression could form to the south or southeast of the 
Hawaiian Islands once the environment becomes more favorable.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...60 percent.

&&
Public Advisories on Tropical Storm Odalys are issued under WMO 
header WTPZ31 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCPEP1.
Forecast Advisories on Tropical Storm Odalys are issued under WMO 
header WTPZ21 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCMEP1.

High Seas Forecasts issued by the National Weather Service
can be found under AWIPS header NFDHSFEPI, WMO header FZPN02 
KWBC, and on the web at ocean.weather.gov/shtml/NFDHSFEPI.php

$$
Forecaster Katz/Pasch
  