ABPZ20 KNHC 252324
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 PM PDT Tue Aug 25 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Storm Lala, located several hundred miles north of Kure Atoll, and 
on Tropical Storm Iselle, located several hundred miles west of the 
southern tip of the Baja California Peninsula.  The National 
Hurricane Center has issued the last advisory on the Remnants of 
Julio, located well west of the southern tip of the Baja California 
Peninsula.  

Central East Pacific:
A tropical wave located well to the south of southwestern Mexico is 
producing a large area of showers and thunderstorms. This system is 
gradually becoming better organized, and environmental conditions 
appear favorable for continued development. A tropical depression is 
expected to form in the next two or three days while it moves 
generally west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph, well offshore of 
Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...60 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Western East Pacific:
A weak and small area of low pressure located well to the 
east-southeast of the Hawaiian Islands is producing some 
disorganized showers and thunderstorms. Environmental conditions 
appear conducive for  gradual development, and a tropical depression 
is likely to form late this week or early this weekend while the 
system drifts northeastward, then turns to the west-northwest.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...40 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

Well Offshore of Southern Mexico:
An area of low pressure could form this weekend well south of 
southern Mexico. Environmental conditions should support some 
gradual development of this system, and a tropical depression could 
form by early next week while it moves westward to 
west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Central Pacific:
An area of low pressure could form well south of the Hawaiian 
Islands late this week or over the weekend.  Some gradual 
development is possible by early next week while the system moves 
slowly to the west-northwest, well south-southwest of the Hawaiian 
Islands.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

$$
Forecaster Cangialosi/Katz/Evans


