en Español

000
ABNT20 KNHC 221713
TWOAT 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
200 PM EDT Sat Aug 22 2026

For the North Atlantic...Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of America:

Northeastern Atlantic:
A strong non-tropical area of low pressure is located over the 
northeastern Atlantic several hundred miles west of the coast of 
Portugal. This system could acquire some subtropical or tropical 
characteristics later today or on Sunday while it moves 
east-southeastward at 10 to 15 mph toward Portugal and northwestern 
Spain. The opportunity for tropical or subtropical development 
should end Sunday night when the system encounters unfavorable 
environmental conditions. For more information, see High Seas 
Forecasts issued by Meteo France.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

Central Subtropical Atlantic:
A trough of low pressure located over the central subtropical 
Atlantic a few hundred miles east of Bermuda is producing 
disorganized shower activity. Development of this system, if any, is 
expected to be slow to occur while it drifts westward through Sunday 
and then accelerates northward early next week. By the middle of 
next week, the system could merge with a frontal boundary over the 
north Atlantic, which should diminish any remaining chances of 
development.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

Eastern Tropical Atlantic:
A tropical wave is expected to move off the west coast of Africa on 
Monday. An area of low pressure could form in association with the 
wave soon after it moves off the coast. Environmental conditions are 
marginally conducive for development, and a tropical depression 
could form by the middle to latter portions of next week while the 
system moves westward at 15 to 20 mph across the eastern and central 
tropical Atlantic.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...40 percent.

&&
High Seas Forecasts issued by Meteo France can be found under WMO 
header FQNT50 LFPW and on the web at 
https://tgftp.nws.noaa.gov/data/raw/fq/fqnt50.lfpw..txt

$$
Forecaster Mahoney/Cangialosi
  