en Español

595 
ABPZ20 KNHC 201145
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 AM PDT Sun Sep 20 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on newly formed 
Tropical Storm Odalys, located located over a thousand miles 
southwest of the southern tip of Baja California. 

Southwest of Southwestern Mexico (EP99):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with a broad area of low 
pressure located about 400 miles south of Manzanillo, Mexico have 
continued to become better organized over the past several hours. 
Environmental conditions remain conducive for development, and a 
tropical depression is likely to form within the next day or so as 
the system moves generally northward off the coast of southwestern 
Mexico. Interests along the southwestern and west-central coast of 
Mexico should monitor the progress of this system. For more 
information, including gale warnings, see the High Seas Forecast 
issued by the National Weather Service.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...90 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Well East-Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands (Former TD 15-E):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with the remnants of Tropical 
Depression Fifteen-E, located well east-southeast of the Hawaiian 
Islands, remain limited. Environmental conditions appear conducive 
for some development of this system by the middle to latter portion 
of this week as it moves westward to west-southwestward, and a 
tropical depression could form to the south or southeast of the 
Hawaiian Islands once the environment becomes more favorable.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...60 percent.

&&
Public Advisories on Tropical Storm Odalys are issued under WMO 
header WTPZ31 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCPEP1.
Forecast Advisories on Tropical Storm Odalys are issued under WMO 
header WTPZ21 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCMEP1.

High Seas Forecasts issued by the National Weather Service
can be found under AWIPS header NFDHSFEPI, WMO header FZPN02 
KWBC, and on the web at ocean.weather.gov/shtml/NFDHSFEPI.php

$$
Forecaster Katz/Pasch
  