ZCZC MIATCPAT4 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM
 
BULLETIN
Hurricane Ida Advisory Number   7
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL092021
1100 PM EDT Fri Aug 27 2021
 
...IDA NOW ENTERING THE GULF OF MEXICO...
...FORECAST TO RAPIDLY INTENSIFY BEFORE REACHING THE NORTHERN GULF
COAST...
 
 
SUMMARY OF 1100 PM EDT...0300 UTC...INFORMATION
-----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...23.0N 84.0W
ABOUT 105 MI...165 KM W OF HAVANA CUBA
ABOUT 615 MI...985 KM SE OF NEW ORLEANS LOUISIANA
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...80 MPH...130 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...NW OR 320 DEGREES AT 15 MPH...24 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...989 MB...29.21 INCHES
 
 
WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:
 
None.
 
SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
A Storm Surge Warning is in effect for...
* East of Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge Louisiana to the
Mississippi/Alabama border
* Vermilion Bay, Lake Borgne, Lake Pontchartrain, and Lake Maurepas
 
A Hurricane Warning is in effect for...
* Cuban provinces of Pinar del Rio and Artemisa, and the Isle of
Youth
* Intracoastal City Louisiana to the Mouth of the Pearl River
* Lake Pontchartrain, Lake Maurepas, and Metropolitan New Orleans
 
A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for...
* Sabine Pass to Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge Louisiana
* Mobile Bay
 
A Hurricane Watch is in effect for...
* Cameron Louisiana to west of Intracoastal City Louisiana
* Mouth of the Pearl River to the Mississippi/Alabama border
 
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* Cuban provinces of Matanzas, Mayabeque, and Havana
* Cameron Louisiana to west of Intracoastal City Louisiana
* Mouth of the Pearl River to the Mississippi/Alabama border
 
A Tropical Storm Watch is in effect for...
* Mississippi/Alabama border to the Alabama/Florida border
 
A Storm Surge Warning means there is a danger of life-threatening
inundation, from rising water moving inland from the coastline,
during the next 36 hours in the indicated locations. For a
depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at
hurricanes.gov.  This is a life-threatening situation.  Persons
located within these areas should take all necessary actions to
protect life and property from rising water and the potential for
other dangerous conditions.  Promptly follow evacuation and other
instructions from local officials.
 
A Hurricane Warning means that hurricane conditions are expected
somewhere within the warning area.  A warning is typically issued
36 hours before the anticipated first occurrence of
tropical-storm-force winds, conditions that make outside
preparations difficult or dangerous.  Preparations to protect life
and property should be rushed to completion.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected somewhere within the warning area within 36 hours.
 
A Storm Surge Watch means there is a possibility of life-
threatening inundation, from rising water moving inland from the
coastline, in the indicated locations during the next 48 hours.
 
A Hurricane Watch means that hurricane conditions are possible
within the watch area.  A watch is typically issued 48 hours
before the anticipated first occurrence of tropical-storm-force
winds, conditions that make outside preparations difficult or
dangerous.
 
A Tropical Storm Watch means that tropical storm conditions are
possible within the watch area, generally within 48 hours.
 
Interests elsewhere along the northern U.S. Gulf coast should
monitor the progress of this system.  Interests in the Dry Tortugas
should also monitor the progress of Ida.
 
For storm information specific to your area in the United
States, including possible inland watches and warnings, please
monitor products issued by your local National Weather Service
forecast office. For storm information specific to your area
outside of the United States, please monitor products issued by
your national meteorological service.
 
 
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 1100 PM EDT (0300 UTC), the center of Hurricane Ida was located
near latitude 23.0 North, longitude 84.0 West.  Ida is moving toward
the northwest near 15 mph (24 km/h) and this general motion should
continue until Ida reaches the northern Gulf coast on Sunday.  A
slower northward motion is forecast after Ida moves inland.  On the 
forecast track, the center of Ida will move over the southeastern 
and central Gulf of Mexico during the next day or two and make 
landfall along the U.S. northern Gulf coast within the hurricane 
warning area by late Sunday.
 
Maximum sustained winds are near 80 mph (130 km/h) with higher
gusts.  Rapid strengthening is forecast during the next day or two, 
and Ida is expected to be an extremely dangerous major hurricane 
when it approaches the northern Gulf coast on Sunday.
 
Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 25 miles (35 km) from the
center and tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 115 miles
(185 km).
 
The estimated minimum central pressure based on data from the Air 
Force Hurricane Hunters is 989 mb (29.21 inches).
 
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
Key messages for Ida can be found in the Tropical Cyclone
Discussion under AWIPS header MIATCDAT4, WMO header WTNT44 KNHC,
and on the web at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?key_messages.
 
STORM SURGE:  A dangerous storm surge will raise water levels by
as much as 4 to 6 feet above normal tide levels in areas of onshore
winds along the immediate coast of the Isle of Youth and near and to
the east of where the center crosses the coast of western Cuba.
Near the coast, the surge will be accompanied by large and
destructive waves.
 
The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the tide will cause
normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by rising waters
moving inland from the shoreline.  The water could reach the
following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated areas if
the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Morgan City, LA to Mouth of the Mississippi River...10-15 ft
Mouth of the Mississippi River to Ocean Springs, MS including Lake
Borgne...7-11 ft
Intracoastal City, LA to Morgan City, LA including Vermilion
Bay...6-9 ft
Ocean Springs, MS to MS/AL border...4-7 ft
Lake Pontchartrain...4-7 ft
Lake Maurepas...3-5 ft
Pecan Island, LA to Intracoastal City, LA...3-5 ft
MS/AL border to AL/FL border including Mobile Bay...2-4 ft
Sabine Pass to Pecan Island, LA...2-4 ft
 
Overtopping of local levees outside of the Hurricane and Storm
Damage Risk Reduction System is possible where local inundation
values may be higher than those shown above.
 
The deepest water will occur along the immediate coast near and to
the east of the landfall location, where the surge will be
accompanied by large and dangerous waves.  Surge-related flooding
depends on the relative timing of the surge and the tidal cycle,
and can vary greatly over short distances.  For information
specific to your area, please see products issued by your local
National Weather Service forecast office.
 
WIND:  Hurricane and tropical storm conditions are occuring over
the Isle of Youth and portions of western Cuba, and these winds 
will continue for a few more hours.
 
Hurricane conditions are expected in the hurricane warning area
along the northern Gulf coast beginning Sunday with tropical
storm conditions expected to begin by late Saturday night or early 
Sunday morning.
 
RAINFALL:  Ida is expected to produce total rainfall accumulations
of 5 to 10 inches with isolated maximum amounts of 15 inches across
western Cuba, including the Isle of Youth.  These rainfall amounts
may produce life-threatening flash floods and mudslides.
 
As Ida approaches the central Gulf Coast Sunday afternoon, total
rainfall accumulations of 8 to 16 inches with isolated maximum
amounts of 20 inches are possible across southeast Louisiana and
southern Mississippi through Monday.  This is likely to result in
considerable flash and riverine flooding impacts.
 
Ida is forecast to turn northeast as it moves inland later Monday,
with rainfall totals of 4 to 8 inches possible from northeastern
Louisiana and central Mississippi into the Tennessee Valley. This is
likely to result in flash and riverine flooding impacts.
 
SURF:  Swells generated by Ida will continue to affect western Cuba 
through Saturday morning.  Swells will begin reaching portions of 
the northern Gulf coast Saturday night or early Sunday.  These 
swells are likely to cause life-threatening surf and rip current
conditions. Please consult products from your local weather office.
 
 
NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next intermediate advisory at 200 AM EDT.
Next complete advisory at 500 AM EDT.
 
$$
Forecaster Cangialosi
 
NNNN