en Español

000
ABPZ20 KNHC 181743
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Fri Sep 18 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

South of Southwestern Mexico (EP99):
A broad area of low pressure located about 800 miles 
south-southwest of the southwestern coast of Mexico continues to 
produce disorganized shower and thunderstorm activity. 
Environmental conditions are conducive for development, and a 
tropical depression is likely to form late this weekend or early 
next week while it moves generally northward off the coast of 
southwestern Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...40 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

Western East Pacific (EP98):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with an area of low pressure 
located almost 1000 miles south-southwest of the southern tip of 
the Baja California Peninsula have become a little better organized 
since yesterday, but the system's circulation remains broad and 
elongated. Environmental conditions appear conducive for additional 
development of this system, and a tropical depression is likely to 
form this weekend as it moves westward at 10 to 15 mph across the 
western East Pacific.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...70 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

Well East-Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands (Former TD 15-E):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with the remnants of Tropical 
Depression Fifteen-E, located more than 1000 miles east-southeast 
of the Hawaiian Islands, remain disorganized. Environmental 
conditions appear conducive for some development of this system 
next week as it moves westward to west-southwestward, and a 
tropical depression could form well to the south or southeast of the 
Hawaiian Islands by the middle to latter part of next week.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...40 percent.

$$
Forecaster Berg
  