ABPZ20 KNHC 251154
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 AM PDT Tue Aug 25 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Storm Lala, located several hundred miles north of Pearl and Hermes 
Atoll, on Tropical Storm Iselle, located several hundred miles 
west of the southern tip of the Baja California Peninsula, and on 
recently upgraded Tropical Storm Julio, located well southwest of 
the southern tip of Baja California Peninsula.  

The National Hurricane Center has issued the last advisory on the 
remnants of Tropical Depression Moke, located several hundred miles 
east of Johnston Island,

Central East Pacific:
A tropical wave located well to the south of southern Mexico is 
producing a large area of disorganized showers and thunderstorms. 
Environmental conditions appear favorable for development of this 
system, and a tropical depression is expected to form in a few days 
while it moves generally west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph, well 
offshore of Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...30 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Western East Pacific:
A trough of low pressure located well to the east-southeast of the 
Hawaiian Islands is producing some disorganized showers and 
thunderstorms. An area of low pressure is forecast to form along the 
trough during the next couple of days, and environmental conditions 
appear conducive for some gradual development thereafter. A tropical 
depression could form during the latter part of the week or early 
this weekend while the system drifts generally north-northeastward. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...30 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...60 percent.

Well Offshore of Southern Mexico:
An area of low pressure could form well offshore of Central America 
late this week or this weekend. Environmental conditions could 
support some gradual development of this system, and a tropical 
depression could form late this weekend or early next week while it 
moves westward to west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph well offshore 
of southern Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...40 percent.

&&
Public Advisories on Tropical Storm Julio are issued under 
WMO header WTPZ35 NHC and under AWIPS header MIATCPEP5.  
Forecast/Advisories on Tropical Storm Julio are issued under 
WMO header WTPZ25 and under AWIPS header MIATCMEP5.

$$
Forecaster Blake


