en Español

000
ABPZ20 KNHC 221152
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 AM PDT Sat Aug 22 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Hurricane 
Lala, located north of the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National 
Monument, and on Tropical Storm Moke, located about 500 miles 
southeast of Hilo, Hawaii.

Southwest of Mexico (EP92):
A broad area of low pressure located several hundred miles southwest 
of the coast of southwestern Mexico is producing a large area of 
showers and thunderstorms that are starting to show signs of 
organization.  This system is moving west-northwestward and is 
likely to become a tropical depression by the end of this weekend or 
early next week.  This system is likely to merge with, or absorb, 
the disturbance to its west (EP91) by late Sunday.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...60 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

Central East Pacific (EP91):
A broad area of low pressure located well to the south-southwest of 
the southern tip of the Baja California Peninsula is producing 
disorganized showers and thunderstorms.  Environmental conditions 
appear favorable for gradual development, and a tropical depression 
could form before it merges with the disturbance to its east (EP92) 
by late Sunday.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...50 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...50 percent.

Well Southwest of Southwestern Mexico:
Another area of low pressure is expected to develop well south of 
the southern tip of the Baja California Peninsula during the middle 
portion of next week. Some slow development is expected thereafter, 
and a tropical depression could form by the end of next week while 
the system moves generally west-northwestward.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...40 percent.

$$
Forecaster Hagen
  