en Español

423 
ABNT20 KNHC 311143
TWOAT 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
800 AM EDT Mon Aug 31 2026

For the North Atlantic...Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of America:

Northern Gulf of America (AL97):
An area of low pressure located a little more than 100 miles south 
of the coast of southern Louisiana continues to produce a small but 
concentrated area of showers and thunderstorms with some signs of 
organization. Additional development is expected as the low moves 
slowly west-northwestward, and a short-lived tropical depression or 
tropical storm is likely to form before the system reaches the Upper 
Texas or southwestern Louisiana coasts on Tuesday.

Interests along the southwestern Louisiana and Upper Texas coasts 
should monitor the progress of this system, as tropical storm 
watches or warnings could be required for portions of the area later 
today. Regardless of development, this system is expected to bring 
locally heavy rainfall to portions of the Upper Texas and 
southwestern Louisiana coasts during the next couple of days. An Air 
Force Reserve reconnaissance aircraft is scheduled to investigate 
the system this morning. Additional information on this system, 
including gale warnings, can be found in High Seas Forecasts issued 
by the National Weather Service.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...70 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

Near Hispaniola (Remnants of Dolly):
A surface trough of low pressure (the remnants of Tropical Storm 
Dolly) is producing a disorganized area of showers and thunderstorms 
that extends from near Hispaniola eastward to the northern Leeward 
Islands. Redevelopment, if any, would be slow to occur during the 
next few days as the system encounters generally unfavorable 
upper-level winds while moving quickly west-northwestward at 20 to 
25 mph. Regardless, the system could bring locally heavy rains and 
gusty winds to portions of the Leeward Islands, the Virgin Islands, 
Puerto Rico, Hispaniola, and the Bahamas during the next couple of 
days.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...10 percent.

&&
High Seas Forecasts issued by the National Weather Service can be 
found under AWIPS header NFDHSFAT1, WMO header FZNT01 KWBC, and 
online at ocean.weather.gov/shtml/NFDHSFAT1.php

$$
Forecaster Reinhart
  