en Español

718 
ABNT20 KNHC 302353
TWOAT 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
800 PM EDT Sun Aug 30 2026

For the North Atlantic...Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of America:

Northern Gulf of America (AL97):
An area of low pressure located over the northern Gulf of America, 
about 125 miles south of the coast of southeastern Louisiana, 
continues to become better defined, and the associated shower and 
thunderstorm activity is gradually increasing. Continued gradual 
development is expected as the low moves slowly west-northwestward, 
and a short-lived tropical depression or tropical storm is likely to 
form before the system reaches the Upper Texas or southwestern 
Louisiana coasts on Tuesday or Tuesday night. 

Interests along the southwest Louisiana and Upper Texas coasts 
should monitor the progress of this system, as tropical storm 
watches or warnings could be required for portions of the area later 
tonight or Monday morning. Regardless of development, this system is 
expected to bring locally heavy rainfall to portions of the Upper 
Texas and southwestern Louisiana coasts during the next several 
days. An Air Force Reserve reconnaissance aircraft is scheduled to 
investigate the low-pressure area on Monday morning.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...70 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

Near Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands (Remnants of Dolly):
A strong tropical wave, the remnants of Tropical Storm Dolly, is 
producing an area of showers and thunderstorms from Puerto Rico 
eastward across the Virgin Islands and the northern Leeward Islands. 
Satellite data and surface observations indicate that there are no 
signs of a closed surface circulation, and redevelopment is unlikely 
during the next day or two while the wave moves westward to 
west-northwestward at about 25 mph. The system could bring locally 
heavy rains and gusty winds to portions of the Leeward Islands, the 
Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and Hispaniola over the next couple of 
days. Conditions may become more conducive for redevelopment by the 
middle of the week as the system reaches the southeastern Gulf of 
America.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

$$
Forecaster Kelly
  