en Español

000
ABPZ20 KNHC 202335
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 PM PDT Sun Sep 20 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Storm Odalys, located located over a thousand miles west-southwest 
of the southern tip of Baja California, and on newly formed Tropical 
Depression Seventeen-E, located a few hundred miles south of 
Manzanillo, Mexico.

East-Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands (Former TD 15-E):
Showers and thunderstorms have increased, but remain disorganized, 
in association with the remnants of Tropical Depression Fifteen-E, 
located more than 500 miles to the east-southeast of the Hawaiian 
Islands. Environmental conditions are forecast to become more 
conducive for development of this system by the middle to latter 
portion of this week, and a tropical depression is likely to form by 
that time to the south or southeast of the Hawaiian Islands as the 
system moves generally westward at 10 to 15 mph. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

South of the Gulf of Tehuantepec:
An area of low pressure could form in a few days to the south of the 
Gulf of Tehuantepec. Thereafter, environmental conditions appear 
favorable for gradual development while the system moves slowly 
west-northwestward to northwestward, parallel to the coast of 
southern and southwestern Mexico. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

&&
Public Advisories on Tropical Storm Odalys are issued under WMO 
header WTPZ31 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCPEP1.
Forecast Advisories on Tropical Storm Odalys are issued under WMO 
header WTPZ21 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCMEP1.

Public Advisories on Tropical Depression Seventeen-E are issued 
under WMO header WTPZ32 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCPEP2. 
Forecast/Advisories on Tropical Depression Seventeen-E are issued 
under WMO header WTPZ22 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCMEP2.

$$
Forecaster Papin
  