ABPZ20 KNHC 270506
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 PM PDT Wed Aug 26 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Storm Lala, located several hundred miles north of Kure Atoll. The 
National Hurricane Center has issued the last advisory on 
Post-Tropical Cyclone Iselle, located about 1000 miles west of the 
southern tip of the Baja California Peninsula.

Central East Pacific (EP93):
Showers and thunderstorms are beginning to show signs of 
organization in association with a low pressure system located about 
800 miles southwest of the coast of southwestern Mexico. 
Environmental conditions are expected to support continued 
development of this system, and a tropical depression is expected to 
form later today or tonight. The system is forecast to move 
west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph, well offshore of Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...90 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Western East Pacific (EP94):
An area of low pressure located well east-southeast of the Hawaiian 
Islands continues to produce disorganized showers and thunderstorms. 
Environmental conditions appear conducive for gradual development, 
and a tropical depression is likely to form over the next two or 
three days while the system drifts to the northeast, before turning 
westward this weekend.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...60 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

Well Offshore of Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is forecast to form this weekend well to the 
south of southwestern Mexico. Environmental conditions appear 
favorable for gradual development of this system, and a tropical 
depression is likely to form early next week while it moves westward 
to west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

Central Pacific:
An area of low pressure could form well south of the Hawaiian 
Islands over the weekend or early next week. Some gradual 
development is possible thereafter while the system moves slowly 
west-northwestward, well south-southwest of the Hawaiian Islands.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

$$
Forecaster Cangialosi


