en Español

000
ABPZ20 KNHC 261747
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Wed Aug 26 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Storm Lala, located several hundred miles north of Kure Atoll, and 
on Tropical Storm Iselle, located well to the west of the southern 
tip of the Baja California Peninsula.

Central East Pacific (EP93):
A broad area of low pressure located well south of southwestern 
Mexico is producing a large area of showers and thunderstorms that 
continues to gradually become better organized. Environmental 
conditions are expected to support gradual development of this 
system, and a tropical depression is likely to form during the next 
day or so while it moves west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph, well 
offshore of Mexico.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...90 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Western East Pacific:
An elongated, broad area of low pressure located well to the 
east-southeast of the Hawaiian Islands is producing disorganized 
showers and thunderstorms. Environmental conditions appear conducive 
for gradual development of this system, and a tropical depression is 
likely to form late this week or early this weekend while the system 
drifts to the northeast, then turns westward.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...50 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

Well Offshore of Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure could form this weekend well to the south of 
southwestern Mexico. Environmental conditions appear favorable for 
some gradual development of this system, and a tropical depression 
could form by early next week while it moves westward to 
west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...60 percent.

Central Pacific:
An area of low pressure could form well south of the Hawaiian 
Islands late this week or over the weekend. Some gradual development 
is possible by early next week while the system moves slowly 
west-northwestward, well south-southwest of the Hawaiian Islands.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

$$
Forecaster Kelly
  