ABPZ20 KNHC 281131
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 AM PDT Fri Aug 28 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Storm Karina, located well south-southwest of the southern tip of 
the Baja California Peninsula, on Tropical Storm Lowell, located 
well east-southeast of the Hawaiian Islands. The National Hurricane 
Center has issued its last advisory on Post-Tropical Cyclone Lala, 
located several hundred miles north of Kure Atoll.

Well Offshore of Southwestern Mexico:
An area of low pressure is forecast to form this weekend well to the 
south of southwestern Mexico. Environmental conditions appear 
favorable for gradual development of this system, and a tropical 
depression is likely to form early next week while it moves 
west-northwestward to northwestward at 10 to 15 mph. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

Central Pacific:
An area of low pressure could form well south or southwest of the 
Hawaiian Islands in a few days. Some gradual development is possible 
thereafter and a tropical depression could form during the middle 
part of next week while the system moves slowly west-northwestward, 
well offshore of the Hawaiian Islands.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...40 percent.

&&
Public Advisories on Tropical Storm Karina are issued under WMO 
header WTPZ31 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCPEP1.
Forecast/Advisories on Tropical Storm Karina are issued under WMO 
header WTPZ21 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCMEP1.

Public Advisories on Tropical Storm Lowell are issued under WMO 
header WTPZ32 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCPEP2.
Forecast/Advisories on Tropical Storm Lowell are issued under WMO 
header WTPZ22 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCMEP2.

$$
Forecaster Beven


