ABPZ20 KNHC 091738
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Wed Sep 9 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Storm Lowell, located several hundred miles north-northwest of the 
Hawaiian Islands.

Central Portion and West Portion of the East Pacific (EP96):
Showers and thunderstorms continue to show signs of organization  
with an area of low pressure located several hundred miles 
south-southwest of the southern tip of the Baja California 
peninsula. Environmental conditions are expected to support 
continued development of this system, and a tropical depression is 
expected to form later today or tonight. as the system moves 
generally west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph. For more information, 
including gale warnings, please see High Seas Forecast issued by 
National Weather Service.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...90 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Central Portion and West Portion of the East Pacific:
An area of low pressure is forecast to form several hundred miles 
south of the southern tip of the Baja California Peninsula this 
weekend or early next week. Some gradual development is possible 
thereafter, and a tropical depression could form early next week 
while the system moves generally west-northwestward.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...40 percent.

Well South-Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands:
An area of low pressure is forecast to form several hundred miles 
south-southeast of the Hawaiian Islands. Some gradual development is 
possible late this week into this weekend as this system moves 
slowly north-northwestward. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...near 0 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...low...20 percent.

&&
High Seas Forecasts issued by the National Weather Service
can be found under AWIPS header NFDHSFEPI, WMO header FZPN02 
KWBC, and on the web at ocean.weather.gov/shtml/NFDHSFEPI.php

$$
Forecaster Evans/Kelly


