en Español

000
ABPZ20 KNHC 191737
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
1100 AM PDT Sat Sep 19 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

South-Southwest of Southwestern Mexico (EP99):
Persistent but disorganized shower and thunderstorm activity is 
associated with a broad area of low pressure well south-southwest 
of the southwestern coast of Mexico. Environmental conditions are 
conducive for development, and a tropical depression is expected to 
form over the next couple of days as the system moves generally 
northward off the coast of southwestern Mexico. Interests along the 
southwestern and west-central coast of Mexico should monitor the 
progress of this system.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...80 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Western East Pacific (EP98):
A broad area of low pressure located well southwest of the southern 
tip of the Baja California Peninsula continues to produce 
disorganized showers and thunderstorms. Environmental conditions are 
conducive for development, and a tropical depression is expected to 
form over the next several days as it moves westward to 
west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph across the western East Pacific.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...80 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

Well East-Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands (Former TD 15-E):
Showers and thunderstorms associated with the remnants of Tropical 
Depression Fifteen-E, located well east of the Hawaiian Islands, 
remain persistent, but disorganized. Environmental conditions appear 
conducive for some development of this system next week as it moves 
westward to west-southwestward, and a tropical depression could form 
well to the south or southeast of the Hawaiian Islands towards the 
middle to latter portion of next week.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...medium...60 percent.

$$
Forecaster Katz/Berg
  