ABPZ20 KNHC 262350
TWOEP 

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 PM PDT Sat Sep 26 2026

For the eastern and central North Pacific east of 180 longitude:

Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Hurricane 
Polo, located a few hundred miles west-southwest of Cabo Corrientes, 
Mexico, on Hurricane Odalys, located well west of the southern tip 
of Baja California, and on Hurricane Nolo, located south of the Big 
Island of Hawaii.

Southwest of the Gulf of Tehuantepec (EP90):
Showers and thunderstorms continue to develop in association with an 
area of low pressure southwest of the Gulf of Tehuantepec. 
Additional development of the system is anticipated due to 
conducive environmental conditions and a tropical depression is 
expected to form in the next day or so. This system is forecast to 
continue moving slowly to the west-northwest or northwest, staying 
parallel to the coast of southern and southwestern Mexico.
For additional information, including Gale Warnings, see High Seas 
forecast issued by the National Weather Service. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...90 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Well East-Southeast of the Hawaiian Islands:
A broad area of low pressure located about 1000 miles to the 
east-southeast of the Hawaiian Islands is becoming organized. 
Environmental conditions are expected to be conducive for 
development of this system, and a tropical depression is likely to 
form during the early to middle part of next week. The system should 
move generally northeastward, and remain well east-southeast of the 
Hawaiian Islands. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...30 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...70 percent.

&&

High Seas Forecasts issued by the National Weather Service
can be found under AWIPS header NFDHSFEPI, WMO header FZPN02 
KWBC, and on the web at ocean.weather.gov/shtml/NFDHSFEPI.php 

$$
Forecaster Evans/Pierce/Beven


